<span id="resources"></span>
= Resources =

<div class="mw-pt-translate-header noprint nomobile" dir="ltr" lang="en">

This page contains <span class="plainlinks">[[/plebnet.wiki/index.php?title=Resources&oldid=1056&diff=2411|changes]]</span> which are not marked for translation.

</div>
<div class="mw-parser-output">

<div class="mw-pt-languages noprint" lang="en" dir="ltr">

<div class="mw-pt-languages-label">

Other languages:

</div>
<div class="mw-pt-languages-list">

<span class="mw-pt-languages-ui mw-pt-languages-selected mw-pt-progress mw-pt-progress--complete" lang="en">English</span>

</div>

</div>
Here are some External Resources which can assist you in your journey as a node runner. Install at your own risk and after your own research.

[https://github.com/lnbook/lnbook Must Read e-Book] by some awesome people like Antonopoulos, Pickhardt and Roasbeef. It's written in simple language and a few hours of effort can really help you in the long run.

[https://github.com/alexbosworth/balanceofsatoshis bos] for node management, rebalancing, telegram interface, command-line interfaces.

[https://github.com/accumulator/charge-lnd charge lnd] for automated fee adjustment scripts

[https://github.com/smallworlnd/stream-lnd-htlcs Streaming HTLC events] for monitoring routing traffic.

[https://github.com/C-Otto/rebalance-lnd Rebalance Lnd] for rebalancing

[https://gridflare.xyz/ For recommendations to improve your centrality and betweenness]

[https://lnnodeinsight.com/ For channel simulation, peer network and other views]

[https://lnrouter.app/ Terminal Score Debugger and other tools]

[https://bitcoinsecurity.guide/ Bitcoin Security Guide]

[https://github.com/BhaagBoseDK/autorebalance Simple Auto Rebalance Script] to keep a minimum balance on every channel at a reasonable cost.

[https://github.com/cryptosharks131/lndg LNDg] to analyze lnd data and manage your node with automation (rebalancing and much more).

[https://terminal.lightning.engineering/ Terminal Web] classifies nodes into good and pending and assigns a score. Based on our experience, the score does not materially affect routing, even though it helps attract other nodes to connect to yours (sort of like a marketing tool). You can use the [https://lnrouter.app/scores/terminal Terminal Score Debugger] tool to debug and optimize your node's score.

[https://plebnet.wiki/wiki/Umbrel_-_Installing_BoS Balance of Satoshis] is an excellent tool to help you optimize channel rebalancing. It'll show you routing hops along with fees for each hop. You can then further optimize rebalancing cost by excluding expensive nodes.

[https://github.com/itsneski/lightning-jet Lightning Jet] is a fully automated rebalancer for LND nodes. You can run jet with <code>enforceProfitability</code> set to true in the config file to ensure that all of your rebalances are profitable by default.

[https://coinhodler04108.com/helpful-resources coinhodler04108.com] has a list of helpful resources.


</div>
