<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>Welcome_to_Plebnet</title>
  <style>
    html {
      color: #1a1a1a;
      background-color: #fdfdfd;
    }
    body {
      margin: 0 auto;
      max-width: 36em;
      padding-left: 50px;
      padding-right: 50px;
      padding-top: 50px;
      padding-bottom: 50px;
      hyphens: auto;
      overflow-wrap: break-word;
      text-rendering: optimizeLegibility;
      font-kerning: normal;
    }
    @media (max-width: 600px) {
      body {
        font-size: 0.9em;
        padding: 12px;
      }
      h1 {
        font-size: 1.8em;
      }
    }
    @media print {
      html {
        background-color: white;
      }
      body {
        background-color: transparent;
        color: black;
        font-size: 12pt;
      }
      p, h2, h3 {
        orphans: 3;
        widows: 3;
      }
      h2, h3, h4 {
        page-break-after: avoid;
      }
    }
    p {
      margin: 1em 0;
    }
    a {
      color: #1a1a1a;
    }
    a:visited {
      color: #1a1a1a;
    }
    img {
      max-width: 100%;
    }
    h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
      margin-top: 1.4em;
    }
    h5, h6 {
      font-size: 1em;
      font-style: italic;
    }
    h6 {
      font-weight: normal;
    }
    ol, ul {
      padding-left: 1.7em;
      margin-top: 1em;
    }
    li > ol, li > ul {
      margin-top: 0;
    }
    blockquote {
      margin: 1em 0 1em 1.7em;
      padding-left: 1em;
      border-left: 2px solid #e6e6e6;
      color: #606060;
    }
    code {
      font-family: Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, 'Lucida Console', monospace;
      font-size: 85%;
      margin: 0;
      hyphens: manual;
    }
    pre {
      margin: 1em 0;
      overflow: auto;
    }
    pre code {
      padding: 0;
      overflow: visible;
      overflow-wrap: normal;
    }
    .sourceCode {
     background-color: transparent;
     overflow: visible;
    }
    hr {
      background-color: #1a1a1a;
      border: none;
      height: 1px;
      margin: 1em 0;
    }
    table {
      margin: 1em 0;
      border-collapse: collapse;
      width: 100%;
      overflow-x: auto;
      display: block;
      font-variant-numeric: lining-nums tabular-nums;
    }
    table caption {
      margin-bottom: 0.75em;
    }
    tbody {
      margin-top: 0.5em;
      border-top: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
      border-bottom: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
    }
    th {
      border-top: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
      padding: 0.25em 0.5em 0.25em 0.5em;
    }
    td {
      padding: 0.125em 0.5em 0.25em 0.5em;
    }
    header {
      margin-bottom: 4em;
      text-align: center;
    }
    #TOC li {
      list-style: none;
    }
    #TOC ul {
      padding-left: 1.3em;
    }
    #TOC > ul {
      padding-left: 0;
    }
    #TOC a:not(:hover) {
      text-decoration: none;
    }
    code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
    span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
    div.columns{display: flex; gap: min(4vw, 1.5em);}
    div.column{flex: auto; overflow-x: auto;}
    div.hanging-indent{margin-left: 1.5em; text-indent: -1.5em;}
    ul.task-list{list-style: none;}
    ul.task-list li input[type="checkbox"] {
      width: 0.8em;
      margin: 0 0.8em 0.2em -1.6em;
      vertical-align: middle;
    }
    .display.math{display: block; text-align: center; margin: 0.5rem auto;}
  </style>
  <!--[if lt IE 9]>
    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/html5shiv/3.7.3/html5shiv-printshiv.min.js"></script>
  <![endif]-->
</head>
<body>
<p><span id="welcome-to-plebnet"></span></p>
<h1 id="welcome_to_plebnet">Welcome to Plebnet</h1>
<div class="mw-pt-translate-header noprint nomobile" dir="ltr" lang="en">
<p>This page contains <span class="plainlinks"><a
href="/plebnet.wiki/index.php?title=Welcome_to_Plebnet&amp;oldid=2045&amp;diff=2205"
title="wikilink">changes</a></span> which are not marked for
translation.</p>
</div>
<div class="mw-parser-output">
<div class="mw-pt-languages noprint" lang="en" dir="ltr">
<div class="mw-pt-languages-label">
<p>Other languages:</p>
</div>
<div class="mw-pt-languages-list">
<p><span class="mw-pt-languages-ui mw-pt-languages-selected mw-pt-progress mw-pt-progress--complete" lang="en">English</span> •
‎<a href="/plebnet.wiki/wiki/Welcome_to_Plebnet/es"
title="wikilink">español</a> • ‎<a
href="/plebnet.wiki/wiki/Welcome_to_Plebnet/fr"
title="wikilink">français</a></p>
</div>
</div>
<p>Hopefully this can be a guide for people wondering where to start,
and what really is plebnet? First, plebnet, this crazy awesome
community, was started by a group of selfless, generous plebs working
together to onboard people to the bitcoin lightning network! Constantly
evolving, the goal remains: bring people together to understand and
support the lightning network, learn from each other the basics of
running a node or using a lightning wallet, and bridge the gap that
remains between the tech/cyber world and the everyday user.</p>
<p>More on the plebnet infrastructure will be addressed below, but first
I will attempt to answer some of the common questions people pose to the
group when first joining, as well with some important tips.</p>
<div id="toc" class="toc" role="navigation" aria-labelledby="mw-toc-heading">
<div class="toctitle" lang="en" dir="ltr">
<p><span id="mw-toc-heading"></span></p>
<h2 id="contents">Contents</h2>
<p><span class="toctogglespan"></span></p>
</div>
<ul>
<li><a href="#PLEB_TIPS_THAT_EVERYONE_SHOULD_KNOW"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">1</span>
<span class="toctext">PLEB TIPS THAT EVERYONE SHOULD
KNOW</span></a></li>
<li><a href="#How_did_I_get_here.3F"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">2</span>
<span class="toctext">How did I get here?</span></a></li>
<li><a href="#Can_I_become_a_node_operator.3F"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">3</span>
<span class="toctext">Can I become a node operator?</span></a></li>
<li><a
href="#How_much_money_can_I_make_running_a_lightning_node.3F_How_much_are_you_making_weekly.3F"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">4</span>
<span class="toctext">How much money can I make running a lightning
node? How much are you making weekly?</span></a></li>
<li><a
href="#Can_I_open_a_channel_with_someone_for_X_amount_of_sats.3F_What_is_the_best_amount_of_sats_to_open_a_channel_with.3F"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">5</span>
<span class="toctext">Can I open a channel with someone for X amount of
sats? What is the best amount of sats to open a channel
with?</span></a></li>
<li><a href="#Resources"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">6</span>
<span class="toctext">Resources</span></a></li>
<li><a href="#Please_contribute_if_you_are_able"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">7</span>
<span class="toctext">Please contribute if you are able</span></a></li>
<li><a href="#PlebNet_infrastructure"
title="wikilink"><span class="tocnumber">8</span>
<span class="toctext">PlebNet infrastructure</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>
<p><span id="pleb-tips-that-everyone-should-know"></span></p>
<h2
id="pleb_tips_that_everyone_should_know"><span id="PLEB_TIPS_THAT_EVERYONE_SHOULD_KNOW" class="mw-headline">PLEB
TIPS THAT EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW</span></h2>
<p>TRUST NO ONE</p>
<p>THERE ARE RISKS WITH RUNNING A LIGHTNING NODE</p>
<p>DO YOUR OWN RESEARCH</p>
<p>LEARN FROM MISTAKES AND HELP OTHERS</p>
<p>RUNNING A NODE IS NOT THE SAME AS MINING BITCOIN</p>
<p><span id="how-did-i-get-here"></span></p>
<h2
id="how_did_i_get_here"><span id="How_did_I_get_here?"></span><span id="How_did_I_get_here.3F" class="mw-headline">How
did I get here?</span></h2>
<p>I am unable to answer that question for you, but maybe you clicked on
one of our links on Twitter? You may have also typed in kycjelly.com
after hearing Walton’s wonderful voice proclaim it on Clubhouse... but
really that is for you to figure out.</p>
<p><span id="can-i-become-a-node-operator"></span></p>
<h2
id="can_i_become_a_node_operator"><span id="Can_I_become_a_node_operator?"></span><span id="Can_I_become_a_node_operator.3F" class="mw-headline">Can
I become a node operator?</span></h2>
<p>I can speak with experience here - anyone can learn to operate a
lightning node. This does not mean that anyone can do it with ease, or
that you will be able to run your node successfully and without risk.
You must be able to do your own research and actually do your own work.
Instead of posing questions like the one I am responding to here, maybe
try asking: can someone point me to the best resources for someone
interested in lightning, or interested in running a lightning node?</p>
<p><span id="how-much-money-can-i-make-running-a-lightning-node-how-much-are-you-making-weekly"></span></p>
<h2
id="how_much_money_can_i_make_running_a_lightning_node_how_much_are_you_making_weekly"><span id="How_much_money_can_I_make_running_a_lightning_node?_How_much_are_you_making_weekly?"></span><span id="How_much_money_can_I_make_running_a_lightning_node.3F_How_much_are_you_making_weekly.3F" class="mw-headline">How
much money can I make running a lightning node? How much are you making
weekly?</span></h2>
<p>Questions along these lines are tricky to answer and depend on too
many variables for it to get a response. Many of us running nodes are
not currently profitable. Our main purpose is learning, supporting the
network, and refining ways to operate a healthy node not at a loss. If
you see a future on a bitcoin standard, there is a good chance everyone
will be transacting on lightning. Some people see their good channels
and connections as an investment for years in the future. There is no
guarantee though that any node will be profitable now or at another
time. This answer is not meant to deter anyone, and we do have node
runners that have become profitable recently, but they have put a
serious amount of time, accounting, strategy, and capital in their nodes
to get to where they are. Instead of looking at how much money you can
make, you must understand your costs and income. To operate a node your
costs are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Capital Expense of purchasing hardware. You should probably write it
off over the useful life of that hardware. Remember as you get hooked
you will spend on upgrades, redundant infrastructure, and so on.</li>
<li>Operating Costs outside your control:
<ul>
<li>Cost of internet bandwidth and electricity (minimal but still there
is a cost)</li>
<li>Cost of opening and closing a channel. These depend on the on-chain
mining costs at that time. It is possible to open a channel at 1 sat/vb
at times but the price on-chain can change in the future.</li>
<li>Cost of rebalancing if you need to do. Ideally, if you operate a
good node there will be two-way traffic but still rebalancing is
something one has to do once in a while and the cost is variable and
determined by the network.</li>
<li>Cost of buying inbound liquidity if you cannot source it from
plebs.</li>
<li>Cost of loop out and other services you might use to operate your
node.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<p>You need to balance these costs against the only source of income
which is your routing fees. You can set them very high but maybe no one
will route through you. You can set them very low and you will not cover
your cost(s). So this is a tight rope 3D chess you will play when you
operate a node. It may not rain sats but it would sure be fun!</p>
<p><span id="can-i-open-a-channel-with-someone-for-x-amount-of-sats-what-is-the-best-amount-of-sats-to-open-a-channel-with"></span></p>
<h2
id="can_i_open_a_channel_with_someone_for_x_amount_of_sats_what_is_the_best_amount_of_sats_to_open_a_channel_with"><span id="Can_I_open_a_channel_with_someone_for_X_amount_of_sats?_What_is_the_best_amount_of_sats_to_open_a_channel_with?"></span><span id="Can_I_open_a_channel_with_someone_for_X_amount_of_sats.3F_What_is_the_best_amount_of_sats_to_open_a_channel_with.3F" class="mw-headline">Can
I open a channel with someone for X amount of sats? What is the best
amount of sats to open a channel with?</span></h2>
<p>The answer to this question is... it's a moving bar. It also depends
on what kind of node you want to operate, what amount of funds you have,
and who you want to connect to. I think there are ~3 broad categories of
nodes in the lightning network</p>
<ol>
<li>Profitable routing nodes: those that require a lot of management,
capital, and skill</li>
<li>Middle ground nodes: a less defined group, nodes with a handful of
decent-sized channels, good peers, and are great for supporting and
expanding the network</li>
<li>Personal use nodes: nodes for people who want to have 1-2 good
connections, the experience of understanding lightning and node running,
and the ability to route personal transactions in or out of their
node.</li>
</ol>
<p>So after understanding these different node groups, the answer for a
good channel size for a profitable routing node is different than a node
with a different use case. As of now many of the bigger routing nodes
have set channel size minimums from around 2 million sats and up (some
have minimums of 10 million sats!). If you are just starting out, some
PlebNet nodes that are great to connect to are <a
href="https://amboss.space/node/0381de1709efbda38f9afd2d47399caa19a2630c0c795acd24755efa442685fc7d">Turgidson</a>
&amp; <a
href="https://amboss.space/node/035f42b1c1cd8afe605f3fc1befc270844ec9885b7c53f713faa672869c25cb148">GirthMavic</a>,
any size channel 20k sats and up will work to connect with them.</p>
<p><span id="resources"></span></p>
<h2
id="resources"><span id="Resources" class="mw-headline">Resources</span></h2>
<p>Now back to the best parts of PlebNet: the resources shared, the pleb
connections made, and the magic of the Lightning network! A lot of
questions people ask may be answered, and resources can be found with a
quick look at the pinned posts, the PlebNet wikis, or in the PlebNet
telegram:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://plebnet.wiki">https://plebnet.wiki</a></li>
<li><a
href="https://library.plebnet.org">https://library.plebnet.org</a></li>
</ul>
<p><span id="please-contribute-if-you-are-able"></span></p>
<h2
id="please_contribute_if_you_are_able"><span id="Please_contribute_if_you_are_able" class="mw-headline">Please
contribute if you are able</span></h2>
<p>Plebs just like you are volunteering their time and expertise to help
the next pleb. This is probably my favorite thing about PlebNet - seeing
someone who joined a week ago jump in to help out a new pleb and answer
their questions is really amazing. The three links above will most
likely lead you to anything you are looking for, including a list of
Lightning-related telegram groups (support chats for Raspiblitz, BOS,
and Umbrel for example), and many more gems of knowledge. If you are
still stumped and want to ask in PlebNet, we are lucky to have the
entire range of lightning user: literally, plebs that are developing on
lightning, to a pleb with a fashion design background, oh and some
pretty well-known champions of bitcoin as well 😉. I am fairly confident
in saying that, at this time, it is the best hub of connections and
resources for the lightning network.</p>
<p><br />
</p>
<p><span id="plebnet-infrastructure"></span></p>
<h2
id="plebnet_infrastructure"><span id="PlebNet_infrastructure" class="mw-headline">PlebNet
infrastructure</span></h2>
<p>As PlebNet has grown, we have evolved, and adjusted, and reinvented
into what we are today. Currently, we have 7 different tiers of telegram
groups for different purposes:</p>
<p><br />
</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://t.me/CHLNgroup">PlebNet - LIGHTNING 101</a>:
Fantastic with onboarding users to custodial Lightning, and helping
people make their first transactions on the lightning network. People
may get their minds blown by the speed and cheap fees that are a product
of the Lightning network.</li>
<li><a href="https://t.me/plebnet">PlebNet</a>: The largest PlebNet
group, with a super amazing graph/web of plebs, where resources flow and
friends are made!</li>
<li>PlebNet // NODERUNNERS: This group is a little smaller and focused
on those who have gotten their node up and running and have a few
channels, aka have made the steps beyond the initial set up a node, and
are ready to talk a little more serious about node running. If you think
you are ready, give a shoutout to <a
href="https://telegram.me/AEHW1">@AEHW1</a> to add you over to this
group. Checklist:</li>
</ul>
<ol>
<li>Use Telegram user id,</li>
<li>Claim your node with @CheeseRobot,</li>
<li>Announce the node in Plebnet,</li>
<li>Enable group invites in your Telegram settings.</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>PlebNet Advanced: This group is specifically focused on the
development of the network and tools for routing and network
optimization. Think super technical mumbojumbo and people creating and
troubleshooting tools that could one day we could all be using for our
nodes, who knows!</li>
<li><a href="https://t.me/Pleb2Salvador">#Plebs2Salvador</a>: This group
was created to build endless chains of 69 to celebrate the day El
Salvador adopted BTC as legal currency. The chain is still ongoing and
it is a nice side group for new node runners. You receive a channel from
a previous peer and you commit to open a 1m or higher channel to your
next peer. No maximum, 21 69 420 sats girth preferred.</li>
<li><a href="http://es.plebnet.org">PlebNet Español</a>: Focused on
Spanish-speaking people interested in learning about Lightning and
setting up a node.</li>
<li><a href="https://t.me/plebnetbusiness">PlebNet for Business</a>:
Where businesses learn about Lightning and setting up nodes for their
business.</li>
</ul>
<p><br />
</p>
<p>There are also <a
href="/plebnet.wiki/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Local_PlebNet_groups"
title="wikilink">local PlebNet groups</a> organizing in-person events in
their city/country. Feel free to join them as well!</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
